[Doc] Logging: Add Fluent Bit DaemonSet and CloudWatch for persistence (#39895)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/cluster/kubernetes/user-guides/logging.md

# Log Persistence

Logs (both system and application logs) are useful for troubleshooting Ray applications and clusters.
For example, if a node terminates unexpectedly, you can check the logs to see what happened.

Ray does not provide a default solution for log data persistence.

> If a job runs into completion, the logs will be lost.

Reviewer: If a `RayJob` is run, by default the RayCluster stays up unless `shutdownAfterJobFinishes` is set, so the logs are actually still available in this case.

Other popular tools include [Vector][Vector], [Fluentd][Fluentd], [Filebeat][Filebeat], and [Promtail][Promtail].

## Log collection strategies

> Collected logs are written to a pod's filesystem using one of two logging strategies:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To write collected logs to a pod's filesystem ,use one of two logging strategies:
```

kubectl logs raycluster-complete-logs-head-xxxxx -c fluentbit
```

(kuberay-fluentbit-ds)=

> ## Setting up logging DaemonSet with Fluent Bit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Set up logging on a DaemonSet with Fluent Bit
```

Fluent Bit is a lightweight agent that allows you to collect logs from your Kubernetes cluster and send them to a variety of destinations such as Elasticsearch, CloudWatch, S3, etc.

> In the following steps, you will set up [Fluent Bit][FluentBit] as a DaemonSet to send logs to CloudWatch Logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following steps set up [Fluent Bit][FluentBit] as a DaemonSet to send logs to CloudWatch Logs.
```

### Setup for AWS EKS

Create an Amazon EKS cluster named `fluent-bit-demo` in `us-west-2` region using `eksctl`, as shown in the [EKS docs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/getting-started-eksctl.html).

```shell
eksctl create cluster --name fluent-bit-demo --region us-west-2
```

View your cluster nodes:
```shell
$ kubectl get nodes -o wide
NAME                                          STATUS   ROLES    AGE    VERSION               INTERNAL-IP     EXTERNAL-IP      OS-IMAGE         KERNEL-VERSION                  CONTAINER-RUNTIME
ip-192-168-59-62.us-west-2.compute.internal   Ready    <none>   157m   v1.27.5-eks-43840fb   192.168.59.62   54.190.144.241   Amazon Linux 2   5.10.192-183.736.amzn2.x86_64   containerd://1.6.19
ip-192-168-86-99.us-west-2.compute.internal   Ready    <none>   157m   v1.27.5-eks-43840fb   192.168.86.99   34.219.16.107    Amazon Linux 2   5.10.192-183.736.amzn2.x86_64   containerd://1.6.19
```

EKS cluster nodes need to have access to CloudWatch Logs for Fluent Bit.

> To make this, attach `CloudWatchLogsFullAccess` policy to the IAM role that is attached to the cluster nodes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Attach the `CloudWatchLogsFullAccess` policy to the IAM role that is attached to the cluster nodes:
```

```

### Deploy Fluent Bit DaemonSet

If you don't already have a namespace called `amazon-cloudwatch`, create one by entering the following command:

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aws-samples/amazon-cloudwatch-container-insights/latest/k8s-deployment-manifest-templates/deployment-mode/daemonset/container-insights-monitoring/cloudwatch-namespace.yaml
```

Run the following command to create a ConfigMap named `cluster-info` with the cluster name and the Region to send logs to:

```shell
ClusterName=fluent-bit-demo
RegionName=us-west-2  
FluentBitHttpPort='2020'
FluentBitReadFromHead='Off'
[[ ${FluentBitReadFromHead} = 'On' ]] && FluentBitReadFromTail='Off'|| FluentBitReadFromTail='On'
[[ -z ${FluentBitHttpPort} ]] && FluentBitHttpServer='Off' || FluentBitHttpServer='On'
kubectl create configmap fluent-bit-cluster-info \
    --from-literal=cluster.name=${ClusterName} \
    --from-literal=http.server=${FluentBitHttpServer} \
    --from-literal=http.port=${FluentBitHttpPort} \
    --from-literal=read.head=${FluentBitReadFromHead} \
    --from-literal=read.tail=${FluentBitReadFromTail} \
    --from-literal=logs.region=${RegionName} -n amazon-cloudwatch
```

> Deploy the Fluent Bit DaemonSet to the cluster by running thefollowing commands:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deploy the Fluent Bit DaemonSet to the cluster by running the following commands:
```

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aws-samples/amazon-cloudwatch-container-insights/latest/k8s-deployment-manifest-templates/deployment-mode/daemonset/container-insights-monitoring/fluent-bit/fluent-bit.yaml
```

> Validate whether Fluent Bit has been deployed successfully by entering the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Validate whether you successfully deployed Fluent Bit by entering the following command:
```

```shell
kubectl -n amazon-cloudwatch logs ds/fluent-bit
```

> You should see it created log groups:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Verify that the command created log groups:
```

```shell
...
[2023/10/10 06:13:55] [ info] [output:cloudwatch_logs:cloudwatch_logs.0] Created log group /aws/containerinsights/fluent-bit-demo/application
[2023/10/10 06:13:57] [ info] [output:cloudwatch_logs:cloudwatch_logs.2] Created log group /aws/containerinsights/fluent-bit-demo/host
[2023/10/10 06:13:57] [ info] [output:cloudwatch_logs:cloudwatch_logs.1] Created log group /aws/containerinsights/fluent-bit-demo/dataplane
...
```

> ### Check CloudWatch Dashboard

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Check the CloudWatch dashboard
```

> Finally, you can check the CloudWatch dashboard to see the logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, check the CloudWatch dashboard to see the logs.
```

> OPen the CLoudWatch console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open the CLoudWatch console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/.
```

> Type in `/aws/containerinsights/fluent-bit-demo/` in the search box.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Type `/aws/containerinsights/fluent-bit-demo/` in the search box.
```

![CloudWatch Dashboard](images/cloudwatch-dashboard.png)

> Select `/aws/containerinsights/fluent-bit-demo/application`, you should see the logs from the application pods including Ray.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select `/aws/containerinsights/fluent-bit-demo/application`. You should see the logs from the application pods including Ray.
```

> Under the log streams, click any log stream, you should see the logs of pods:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Under the log streams, click any log stream. You should see the logs from the pods:
```

kubectl logs raycluster-complete-logs-head-xxxxx -c fluentbit
```

(kuberay-fluentbit-daemonset)=
## Setting up logging DaemonSet with Fluent Bit

> In this section, we give a walkthrough of how to set up log-emitting [Fluent Bit][FluentBit] DaemonSet for Ray pods.

Reviewer: It would be helpful to include a brief description of what Fluent Bit is and what it's going to do for us, even though we link to fluentbit's website

The following tutorial will be based on AWS EKS, but the same steps can be applied to other Kubernetes distributions.

### Setup for AWS EKS

Create an EKS cluster named `fluent-bit-demo`, as shown in the [EKS getting started guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/getting-started.html).

Create a policy file called `eks-fluent-bit-daemonset-policy.json` with the following content:

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "firehose:PutRecordBatch"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "logs:PutLogEvents",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:logs:*:*:log-group:*:*:*"
        },
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "logs:CreateLogStream",
                "logs:DescribeLogStreams",
                "logs:PutLogEvents"
            ],
            "Resource": "arn:aws:logs:*:*:log-group:*"
        },
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "logs:CreateLogGroup",
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}

> ```

Reviewer: The policy file is a bit opaque for beginners, could we add a brief description of what the different parts do?

To attach this policy file to the EKS on EC2 worker nodes, execute the following sequence:

```bash

> $ STACK_NAME=$(eksctl get nodegroup --cluster fluent-bit-demo -o json | jq -r '.[].StackName')
> 
> $ INSTANCE_PROFILE_ARN=$(aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name $STACK_NAME | jq -r '.Stacks[].Outputs[] | select(.OutputKey=="InstanceProfileARN") | .OutputValue')
> 
> $ ROLE_NAME=$(aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name $STACK_NAME | jq -r '.Stacks[].Outputs[] | select(.OutputKey=="InstanceRoleARN") | .OutputValue' | cut -f2 -d/)
> 
> $ aws iam put-role-policy \
>     --role-name $ROLE_NAME \
>     --policy-name FluentBit-DS \
>     --policy-document file://eks-fluent-bit-daemonset-policy.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
STACK_NAME=$(eksctl get nodegroup --cluster fluent-bit-demo -o json | jq -r '.[].StackName')

INSTANCE_PROFILE_ARN=$(aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name $STACK_NAME | jq -r '.Stacks[].Outputs[] | select(.OutputKey=="InstanceProfileARN") | .OutputValue')

ROLE_NAME=$(aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name $STACK_NAME | jq -r '.Stacks[].Outputs[] | select(.OutputKey=="InstanceRoleARN") | .OutputValue' | cut -f2 -d/)

aws iam put-role-policy \
    --role-name $ROLE_NAME \
    --policy-name FluentBit-DS \
    --policy-document file://eks-fluent-bit-daemonset-policy.json
```

I think we need to do this so it can be copy-pasted

```

### Deploy Fluent Bit DaemonSet

Now we move on to defining the Kubernetes RBAC settings – that is, the service account the Fluent Bit pods will be using along with the role and role binding.

First create the service account fluent-bit (this is what we will later use in the daemon set):

```bash
kubectl create sa fluent-bit
```

Next, define the role and binding in a file named `eks-fluent-bit-daemonset-rbac.yaml`:

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: pod-log-reader
rules:
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources:
  - namespaces
  - pods
  verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: pod-log-crb
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: pod-log-reader
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: fluent-bit
  namespace: default
```

Now, in order to make the access permissions for the Fluent Bit plugin effective, you create the role and role binding, defined above, by executing the command:

```bash
kubectl apply -f eks-fluent-bit-daemonset-rbac.yaml
```

> In contrast to the ECS case, where we backed the configuration into a custom image, in our Kubernetes setup we’re using a config map to define the log parsing and routing for the Fluent Bit plugin. For this, use a file called `eks-fluent-bit-configmap.yaml` with the following content:

Reviewer: ECS?

    app.kubernetes.io/name: fluentbit
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      name: fluentbit
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        name: fluentbit
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: fluent-bit
      containers:
      - name: aws-for-fluent-bit
        image: amazon/aws-for-fluent-bit:1.2.0
        volumeMounts:
        - name: varlog
          mountPath: /var/log
        - name: varlibdockercontainers
          mountPath: /var/lib/docker/containers
          readOnly: true
        - name: fluent-bit-config
          mountPath: /fluent-bit/etc/
        - name: mnt
          mountPath: /mnt
          readOnly: true
        resources:
          limits:
            memory: 500Mi
          requests:
            cpu: 500m
            memory: 100Mi
      volumes:
      - name: varlog
        hostPath:
          path: /var/log
      - name: varlibdockercontainers
        hostPath:
          path: /var/lib/docker/containers
      - name: fluent-bit-config
        configMap:
          name: fluent-bit-config
      - name: mnt
        hostPath:
          path: /mnt
```

Finally, launch the Fluent Bit daemonset:
```bash
kubectl apply -f eks-fluent-bit-daemonset.yaml
```

> 

Reviewer: It would be nice to have a final step here in the tutorial which the user can run, and which clearly "proves" that the log forwarding worked. But not sure how much work it is to add
